All right, now before we go anywhere
I just want to point out the little logo that's
sitting behind me.
And I also want to mention the fact
that real recently at Ignite, which sort of dates when this
was recorded, Ignite being the big annual Microsoft
conference, there's actually a whole set of pins that had,
Microsoft hearts Linux, on it.
And I've actually written a couple
a blog posts about Microsoft and Open Source.
So you may be wondering, OK, well,
what is Christopher about to do here?
Well Christopher is about to do a demo on Visual Studio
Code, which is an IDE created by us, created by Microsoft,
that will work on Windows, will work on Mac OS,
and will work on Linux.
And I'm actually going to be doing this demo using a Linux
VM that is running on Azure.
And by the way, as a real quick side note,
I promise to not refer to myself in the third person
for the rest of this video.
Now, what I want to do is walk through how
to go get Bootstrap and the files
that are going to be required and how to get started
with Visual Studio code.
I do want to mention just as a real quick caveat,
you are going to notice that the demos that I'm
going to be doing where I'll actually get in and start
using Bootstrap, are going to be in the full copy of Visual
Studio.
And again, if you are using Windows,
you can use Visual Studio Community for free.
But if you're not using Windows, or if you just
want to play with another IDE, integrated development
environment, you're free to do that.
And Visual Studio code is freely available for you.
Now, let's go ahead and take look at my environment here.
And I just want to highlight the fact
that I've got two little folders that I've
created on my desktop.
I've got Bootstrap demo and then I've got Visual Studio Code.
And then you'll also notice that I've got my copy of Firefox
here.
Now I've already got the three tabs open that I need.
And so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to go grab the Bootstrap files that I want,
I'm going to go grab the jQuery file,
and then I'm going to close all that off
by grabbing Visual Studio Code, and seeing how we can
get everything up and running.
So step one here is I'm just going to click
on Download Bootstrap here.
And then right here, I'm just going
to click on Download Bootstrap.
So I'm just going to go ahead and open up the zip
file with the Archive Manager.
And then what you're going to notice inside
of that little Bootstrap 3.3.4 distribution
is a CSS folder which will have our CSS files.
We're going to have a Fonts folder which will have
our glyph icons and our fonts.
And then last, but not least is a JS folder that
will have our JavaScript files.
Now what I'm going to do is, I'm going to put those
into our Bootstrap demo folder.
So I'm just going to do a real quick drag and drop of those.
There we go.
And I'm going to do a little bit of cleanup work here.
That I really don't like the name,
CSS, so I'm just going to rename that to be Styles.
And I really don't like the name JS.
I'm going to rename that to be, Scripts.
So now you're going to notice inside of my Bootstrap demo
folder that I've got Fonts, I've got Scripts
and I've got Styles.
So now I've got the Bootstrap files that I'm going to need,
but I also need jQuery in order for all
the Bootstrap functionality to work.
So I just navigate on over to jQuery.com,
I click, Download jQuery.
And then if I scroll on down here, I've got my jQuery 2.x,
and that will actually work just fine.
I want the compressed production jQuery.
So I'm just going to click that.
And what you'll notice is that it will then just
open it up inside of Firefox, so you can read jQuery
there if you like.
But an easier thing to do is, is just
to right-click on that link.
And then just click on Save Link As.
And then we'll go ahead and navigate back to our desktop.
We'll navigate on into Bootstrap demo, into Scripts,
and then we'll save it inside of there.
OK, cool.
Now last thing is to go grab Visual Studio Code.
So let's just go to Visual Studio Code.
I've already got the tab.
You'll notice the URL there is Code.VisualStudio.com.
It's detecting the fact that running Linux,
so it automatically prompts me, hey download code for Linux.
So let me just click that.
And I'll just let it open up with the default to Archive
Manager again.
And now I'm just going to extract all of this.
So let me just click, Extract.
And let's go back into the desktop, and then this time
into Visual Studio Code, and click, Extract.
So now what I've done here is I've
created the environment that we'll
be doing our Bootstrap work in.
And I've now downloaded Visual Studio Code
and extracted that out to a folder.
OK, now if I click on Show The Files here,
what you're going to notice is that it's
got a whole set of files and so forth that it needs.
All I have to do is just double click on Code.
And that launch Visual Studio Code for me.
Beautiful.
OK, now you are going to notice that it automatically gives me
a little Welcome tab, going to show us how everything
is designed to work, and you can read
more if you want right there.
I'm just going to close that out and I'm
going to make one very big change here.
I'm going to click on View, Theme,
and I'm going to go to Light Theme, which
is going to make things much easier to read on the screen.
And I'm also, by using Control and then the equal sign,
I'm going to zoom in a little bit more,
just to make things that much easier to read.
Now what you're going to notice over here
is we've got a set of little icons here.
So for example, you'll notice that I can connect up to Get.
The one I'm going to want is Explore.
So I'm just going to click, Explore,
and then I'm going to click, Open Folder.
And that will then allow me to go open up that Bootstrap demo.
So I'm just going to hit, Bootstrap demo.
I'm going to click, OK.
So you'll notice by having opened up that Bootstrap
demo that of course I've got everything inside of there.
That I've got my Fonts, I've got my Scripts,
and I've got my Styles.
Now for right now, I'm just going
to go ahead and collapse all of these.
And I'm going to make sure that nothing is selected.
So I just clicked right in this little grayish area
on the lower left.
And you'll notice that when I highlight over Bootstrap demo
that I automatically get the ability to create
brand new file.
So I'm just going to click, New File.
And I'm going to call this index.html.
Hit Enter, and now of course you're
going to notice that it will give me an HTML editor.
So I could go in and add HTML.
I could go ahead and add head, and title,
Welcome to Visual Studio Code.
And then sneak down into the body here.
And now I've got my very basic little HTML page.
Now in order to add the appropriate items
in for Bootstrap, I'm going to need two Script files and one
Style file.
The two Script files that I'm going to need is the minified
version of jQuery, so I can do that by saying, Script,
SRC equals, and then let's go ahead and point
at jQuery-2.1.4-- and that should of course be a dash
rather than a minus.
There we go-- .min.js.
And remember of course that the minified versions
are going to be the ones that will
be all compressed, no white space, things like that.
And then let's go ahead and add in another Script tag,
and then SRC equals, and then we'll say bootstrap.min.js.
And it is worth noting here that if you wanted
to reference a CDN, a content delivery network,
you could absolutely do that.
I'm just going local here for those files.
So I've got my couple little JavaScript files right there.
And then I also need a Style.
And the one that I'm going to need is that bootstrap.min.css,
so I'm just going to say, link, rel="stylesheet".
And then href= and then we'll go ahead and point at, in my case,
/styles/bootstrap.min.css.
And I'm just noticing here I've got a couple of little typos.
I do need to fix the spelling of Bootstrap.
We'll do that.
And I also need to specify that these are inside
of my Scripts folder.
There we go.
OK, and again, I'm just going to keep having typos.
Beautiful.
So now, I've got everything set up inside my basic HTML.
I always like a jumbotron to do a real quick check just
to make sure that everything's working.
So I'm just going to say, div class='containter'.
And then we'll say, div class='jumbotron'.
And then let's throw in an h2 and "Hello Visual Studio Code."
Just like that.
OK, cool.
So now I've got everything set up just the way
that I want that.
So now let's go ahead and save it just Control-S will do that.
I'm going to right-click and say, Open Containing Folder,
just to open up the folder that it's in.
Go a little bit old school there.
And then I'll just double-click on Index HTML, that
will open up inside of Mozilla Firefox for me
and display my little jumbotron with
that Hello, Visual Studio Code!
And just to kind of prove that it
is in fact using my Bootstrap, kinda
go one step further with this, let's even
just add in a real quick button.
And let's just say, class=btn, btn=success, and Hello button.
And let's again just hit, Save.
Let's go back to Firefox, hit, Refresh,
and then there's my little green button.
So here's the basic steps just one more time.
I created a little folder called, Bootstrap demo.
Created three folders inside of there, one for my Fonts
with the fonts from Bootstrap.
One with my Scripts with both jQuery and Bootstrap.
And then last but not least one with the Styles
that contains the appropriate CSS.
I grab Visual Studio Code.
Just threw that into a folder.
And I open that up, created my little index.
I referenced my Style Sheets.
I referenced my couple of little Scripts.
And then I went in and added my little bit of code.
And so you'll notice that you could use Visual Studio
Code to walk through all of the demos, and all of the labs
that are going to be associated with this course.
So if you don't want to use Windows,
if you want to use Mac, if you want to use Linux,
you could go ahead and use this as well.